📘 Procedure-Oriented Programming (POP)
🔹 Introduction

Procedure-Oriented Programming (POP) is a programming paradigm that focuses on procedures or functions to perform tasks.

In POP, a program is divided into small parts called functions, and each function performs a specific task. The main aim is to solve a problem by step-by-step instructions (algorithms).

👉 It follows a top-down approach, where a problem is broken down into smaller sub-problems.

🔹 Definition

Procedure-Oriented Programming can be defined as:

A programming approach where the program is structured into procedures (functions), and the data is processed through these procedures.

🔹 Key Characteristics of POP
✔ Focus on functions/procedures
✔ Uses top-down design approach
✔ Data is globally shared among functions
✔ Functions operate on shared data
✔ Emphasis on algorithm and logic
🔹 Basic Structure of POP

A typical POP program consists of:

Input – Taking data from the user
Processing – Performing operations using functions
Output – Displaying results
🔹 Example of POP in C++
#include <iostream>
using namespace std;

// Function to add two numbers
int add(int a, int b) {
    return a + b;
}

int main() {
    int x = 10, y = 20;
    int result = add(x, y);
    
    cout << "Sum = " << result;
    return 0;
}

👉 In this example:

The program is divided into functions
Data is passed between functions
Focus is on procedure (add function)
🔹 Features of POP
1. 🔸 Top-Down Approach

The problem is divided into smaller sub-problems.

2. 🔸 Function-Based

Programs are structured using functions.

3. 🔸 Global Data Sharing

Data is often declared globally and accessed by multiple functions.

4. 🔸 Sequential Execution

Instructions are executed step-by-step.

5. 🔸 Modular Programming

Programs are divided into modules (functions).

🔹 Advantages of POP
✔ Simple and easy to understand
✔ Suitable for small programs
✔ Easy debugging and testing
✔ Less memory usage
✔ Faster execution (in many cases)
🔹 Disadvantages of POP
❌ Lack of data security (data is global)
❌ Difficult to manage large programs
❌ No data hiding
❌ Less code reusability
❌ Difficult maintenance and scalability
